## Content Management

Joomla! is a Content management system at heart and has excellent
features to make organising and managing content a breeze. The inbuilt
WYSIWYG editor allows users to edit content without any knowledge of
code. There are many possible ways to display the site content with
different layouts and pre-installed modules to show the most popular
articles, latest items, related articles and more.

Adding an image is as easy as dragging and dropping it from your
computer directly into the content editor. This works anywhere that you
are using the default TinyMCE WYSIWYG editor. And if you want to add a
module into an article, Joomla! makes it really easy with a button
directly on the editor toolbar. You donâ€™t need to learn any syntax or
remember the module details as the user interface does it for you.

## Accessibility Checker

Every visitor unable to view your page is potentially a lost customer.
Joomla! allows authors to create great accessible content with a plugin
to visually highlight common accessibility and usability issues.

## Keyboard Shortcuts

There are 9 keyboard shortcuts built into the administrator side of your
site such as J + F to jump into the search field or J + S to save. Press
J + X to get a list of them all. The keystrokes are all sequential,
making it more accessible than hitting them simultaneously.

## Syntax Highlight

Sometimes the editor WYSIWYG view is not enough and you have to switch
to the HTML code view. In Joomla! all the code is syntax highlighted in
the source code view within the built-in TinyMCE editor. This will make
it so much easier to read all of your HTML tags and CSS classes. Markup
is clearly displayed. Additionally, you can search and replace directly
in the HTML code view.

## Frontend Editing

Editing content should be easy and fast. You are reading through your
site's content and see a change you need to make. No need to login to
the Backend any more for simple edits of content and modules. Simply
login to the Frontend, click and edit there.

## Content Versioning

You will never again lose a previous important version of your article
and other changes on your site. You are now able to track exactly who
made what changes, when, and, if a version note was entered, why the
item got edited. Then if needed you can revert to any previous version.

## Workflows

The Publishing Workflow component is used by a team of users with
different responsibilities to move an article from one stage of the
publication process to the next. For example: one user group may compose
blog posts but not publish them; a second user group approves blog posts
and publishes them. The workflow may involve more steps. If only one
user does everything then a workflow is not needed.

## Categories

When you are managing content, organisation is a key requirement. Being
able to create categories with nesting and no limits on depth is a great
plus in helping manage large websites.

## Tags

When categorisation is not enough to structure content, it's time to
look at a flat organisation structure which is best served by tagging.
What's more, tagging in Joomla! also supports nesting, so limits are
just not there! Start tagging.

## Smart Search

With the built-in Smart Search, website visitors will be able to quickly
and easily find the appropriate site information. And even more, thanks
to the statistics you can analyze your visitors needs and streamline
your content even better to serve them. You have the ability to use the
included smart indexing, advanced search options, auto suggest
searches - making Joomla! search the best in class right out of the box.

## Media Management

The Media component is used to upload, organize and manage media files
and folders. It has configurable MIME settings to handle a wide range of
media types. The Media component is integrated into the Article Editor
to allow access to images and all other media files for easy usage and
enhancement of written content.

## Multilingual

Joomla! is the most popular and widely supported open source
multilingual CMS platform in the world, offering more than 64 languages.
Webmasters and content creators can create websites to be presented in
multiple languages, without ever needing to step outside of the options
available in the Joomla! core software. This is a big step forward and
represents a set of capabilities that can make websites much more
accessible, reaching out to a much larger audience.

## Menu Management

The Menu system allows creation of as many menus and menu items as
needed. You can structure your menu hierarchy (and nested menu items)
completely independently of your content structure. Put one menu in
multiple places and in any style you want; use rollovers, dropdown,
flyouts and just about any other navigation system you can think of.
Also automatic breadcrumbs are generated to help users navigate your
site.

## User Management

Out of the box, Joomla! has nine user groups with various types of
permissions on what users assigned to a specific group are allowed to
access, edit, publish and administer using Access Control Lists (ACL).
The Joomla! ACL is extremely powerful and can be configured to suit any
needs you might have.

Joomla! has a registration system that allows users to configure
personal options, such as password, name, email address, default editor
and so on.

Authentication is an important part of user management and Joomla!
supports multiple protocols, including LDAP, OpenID, and even Gmail.
This allows users to use their existing account information to
streamline the registration process. All of this can be added onto with
extensions, giving you complete control over what users can access and
how they authenticate to your site.

Administrators may quickly and efficiently communicate with users
one-on-one through private messaging or all site users via the mass
mailing system.

## Multi Factor Authentication

Joomla! was the first major CMS to implement two-factor authentication.
It now has multi-factor authentication allowing users to choose one or
more authentication methods in addition to the traditional username and
password method. A single-use code received on your cell phone or a
Yubikey are just two of the methods available to make your site extra
hack-proof.

## WebAuthn

WebAuthn is available for passwordless login using a hardware or
software device.

## Template Management

Templates in Joomla! are more than a framework for managing your designs
but a powerful tool suite for making your site look exactly the way you
want. You have complete control of your presentation since you can
either use a single template for the entire site or a separate template
for each site section or menu item.

With a highly advanced override system, designers get an awesome amount
of power over how pages & elements of pages are presented without
touching any of the core code! Practically any HTML generated by Joomla!
can be customized to your project.

Child Templates allow you to make changes to a template that will not be
overwritten if there is a template update. The changes are made in a
partial clone of the original template.

## Responsive with Bootstrap

Joomla! is Mobile Ready and allows you to build more than just websites
but online applications that can respond to virtually any device.
Joomla! core templates are built with Bootstrap making it responsive out
of the box. Which means you have a toolset to work with which makes
creating templates even easier!

## Beautiful Fonts for that Extra Edge

Designers know the power of fonts for expressing ideas and design
strategies. With Joomla! you do not need to get constrained by standard
web fonts. The Joomla! core itself opens a whole new world of expression
because it allows you the freedom to use Google fonts to make that new
design dream come true!

## Banner Management

With the banner manager you have the possibility to easily add
advertising and monetize your website. The tool allows you to create
clients and campaigns, to add as many banners as you need, even custom
codes, to set impression numbers, track the clicks and much more...

## Contact Management

Not enough with just one contact form on your site? The contacts
component allows you to add several contacts, departments and
categories, and extend the basic contact information with miscellaneous
information and an image. Easily set up a contact form for each contact
you create and allow access to the public or just to some registered
users, or create a listing of these contacts.

## Syndication and News Feed Management

Make sure your visitors stay updated on the new content you're adding,
even when they come only once in a while. With Syndication you create a
feed that users subscribe to in their favorite RSS reader and so they
receive the updates. With news feed management, you can integrate RSS
feeds to your site. Gather all posts from some of the largest news sites
and show them on your site for example.

## Administrator Help

Most administrator pages have a Help button at the top right. It opens a
pop-up window containing information on all of the options on that page.
Some pages also have an Inline Help button that toggles on/off
explanatory text beneath selected fields in administrator data entry
forms There is a page of Help links, including one to all Help pages and
many to online resources, such as Joomla! Documentation and User Forums.

## Easy Updates

Joomla! has a *One Click Version Update* feature to make updating super
easy for users of any skill level. The built-in updater has an automated
checker which notifies you if anything needs updating; this includes
notifications of the core software and Joomla! extensions that use this
feature. The email update notification plugin checks for the
availability of new Joomla! versions and sends the Super Users on the
site an email notification.

## Powerful Extensibility

The Joomla! core is just the beginning, the real power is in the way you
can customize Joomla. More than 8000 Extensions are available to extend
your website and broaden its functionality. Visit the
<a href="https://extensions.joomla.org/" class="external free"
target="_blank"
rel="noreferrer noopener">https://extensions.joomla.org/</a> to see
thousands of ways to enhance Joomla! to suit your needs.

## Well Supported

Our worldwide, enthusiastic community is filled with individuals, and
teams of world class developers and business consultants who actively
help at no cost in the forums. There are thousands of professional
Joomla! service providers throughout the world who can help build,
maintain and market your Joomla! projects.

## System Features

Speedy page loads are possible with page caching, granular-level module
caching, and GZIP page compression.

If your system administrator needs to troubleshoot an issue, debugging
and error reporting options are invaluable.

## Task Scheduler

Tasks you do time and time again or future tasks that must not be
forgotten can be automated with the Task Scheduler.

## Guided Tours

Get started or help new users get started with a range of guided tours that will take a user through the necessary steps to carry out common tasks in Joomla!

Add additional guided tours step by step.


