<!-- Filename: Cache / Display title: Cache -->

Joomla has different ways of caching "things". Here is an overview for
administrators and developers – what, where and when.

# For Administrators

As an administrator, Joomla provides you with the ability to cache parts
of your site. You can choose to cache whole web pages or just parts of
those pages. This guide explains how.

On a Joomla site web page there are 3 things which may be cached:

1.  The whole page itself – the Page cache
2.  The output from the Joomla component for that web page – known as
    the View cache
3.  The output from the modules shown on that page – known as the Module
    cache

You have a number of cache settings which allow you to control what gets
cached:

1.  The system plugin "System – Page Cache"
2.  The Global Configuration, System tab, Cache Settings. Here the
    System Cache option may be set to
    - OFF – Caching disabled
    - ON – Conservative caching
    - ON – Progressive caching
3.  Many modules within their options have an Advanced tab in which the
    Caching can be set to *Use global* or *No caching*

As described below, there are also rules for caching which are
implemented within the Joomla code, and over which you have no control.

You can clear the cache through the Administrator → System → Clear Cache
menu selection. In general, you can think of Joomla having 3 levels of
cache, increasing in aggressiveness

1.  Conservative caching
2.  Progressive caching
3.  Page caching

We'll look at these three in detail below.

In addition, Joomla developers can use caching facilities to store the
result of database queries, for example, to increase the responsiveness
of the site, but this is outside the scope of Administrator
capabilities.

## Page Caching

To switch this on, go to Administrator → Extensions → Plugins. Then find
the System – Page Cache plugin, and enable it. This means that site
pages will now be cached and whenever they're requested again, the
cached page will be served, rather than it being generated by Joomla
from the information in the database. The cached page will continue to
be served until it's expired – as defined by the *Cache Time* parameter
in the Administrator → Global Configuration → System tab → Cache
Settings.

If you're reading this page as a tutorial and want to test the page
caching, it's best to set the Global Configuration cache settings to:

- Cache Handler – File
- Path to Cache Folder – leave blank
- Cache Time – 15 (the default of 15 minutes)
- Platform Specific Caching - No
- System Cache – OFF – Caching disabled

To verify that page caching is working, go to a website page that
displays an article. After you display that page you should find in the
file system a `cache/page` directory with a file in it which has a
filename like `-cache-page-.php`. (Joomla has to store separate cache
pages for separate URLs so the second string of hex digits is a hash of
the URL of the site web page, to make the filename unique to that page).

Then use the Administrator functionality to change the text of that
article, and redisplay the site web page. You should find the cached
version, not your modified text.

Changing an article (or other Joomla item) does not clear the page cache
for the web page(s) where that article is displayed. To clear the page
cache go to Administrator → System → Clear Cache. Click on the checkbox
next to the *Cache Group* called "page", and press the Delete button.
When you redisplay your web page it should now show your amended text.

If your site has a function like a shopping basket, applying page
caching will cause problems, as pages have to show what the customer has
already selected, rather than displaying a cached page which is common
to everyone. However, you can configure the System - Page Cache plugin
to exclude caching specified Menu Items or specified URLs and URL ranges
(in the Advanced tab), so that only truly static pages are cached.

## Conservative Caching

With Conservative Caching you can cache the View output from components
and the output from those Modules which allow caching. But note that
this will work only on pages which are not cached using the Page Cache.
For those pages the whole web page is cached, and Conservative Caching
isn't even considered.

To switch on Conservative Caching:

1.  Go to Administrator → System → Global Configuration → System tab and
    within Cache Settings, set System Cache to ON – Conservative caching
2.  Go to Administrator → Extensions → Modules and select the modules
    which you'd like to be cached. If that module permits caching then
    under the Advanced tab you should be able to set Caching to

- Use Global – this module will be cached (with the Global option now
  having been set to Conservative caching)
- No caching – this module will not be cached.

(Note that the Cache Time in the Global Configuration is in minutes but
the Cache Time in the Module settings is in seconds.)

To check it's working, go to your site, **ensure that you are logged
out**, and navigate to a web page which displays an article. Check your
file system and you should find a folder `cache/com_content` containing
a cache file.

You'll also find other directories such as `cache/com_languages` (as
displaying the page involves loading the current language, and this will
be cached as well) and also directories relating to module cache, e.g.
`cache/com_modules`. These result from the use of cache which developers
have coded within the Joomla application.

If you edit and save that article then refresh the site page, you will
find that the site displays the updated text this time. This is because
whenever the edit is saved, Joomla clears the cache for that article.

However, you can demonstrate that the cache is working if you edit the
cache file in the `cache/com_content` directory using a basic text
editor. Using the editor, change one letter within the article text in
the cache file and save the file. Then when you refresh the web page you
should see the change that you made to the cache file.

How can you select which component views get cached, and under what
circumstances? Alas, you can't do this. This is determined by the Joomla
core component developers and coded in the component PHP code. The
criteria are different for each component. However, you can easily
discover what criteria are used because for each of the site components
they are coded in the site `controller.php` file. For example, at the
time of this writing (Joomla version 3.9.2) for the Contacts component
we find in `components/com_contact/controller.php`

    if (JFactory::getApplication()->getUserState('com_contact.contact.data') === null)
    {
        $cachable = true;
    }

This means that the views associated with contacts will be cachable
unless there is session data keyed by com_contact.contact.data – which
will be the case if in the user session the user has displayed a contact
form (e.g. on a page pointed to by a menu item of type Contacts → Single
Contact).

The equivalent file for articles `components/com_content/controller.php`
contains:

    $cachable = true;
    if ($user->get('id') || ($this->input->getMethod() === 'POST' && (($vName === 'category' && $this->input->get('layout') !== 'blog') || $vName === 'archive' )))
    {
        $cachable = false;
    }

The expression `$user->get('id')` is true if this is a logged-in user.
This means that articles are never cached for logged-in users. The
subsequent expressions relate to other conditions when the caching is
not performed, even if the user is not logged in.

So in this way you can discover the circumstances under which caching is
performed, but changing these is not advisable. You can also demonstrate
that modules are being cached by using the Joomla Breadcrumbs module,
ensuring it's displayed in some module position on the web page, setting
its Caching option and manually editing the cached file in
cache/mod_breadcrumbs.

## Progressive Caching

Like Conservative Caching, Progressive Caching also caches the output
from component views and from modules. The functional difference between
the two is that with Progressive Caching **for logged-off users all
modules are always cached**. In this case, setting the *No Caching*
option for a module has no effect. If the caching storage option is to
*File*, you can find the modules cache file (the output from all modules
is stored within the same file) within the `cache/com_modules`
directory.

To switch on Progressive Caching, go to Administrator → System → Global
Configuration → System tab and within *Cache Settings* set *System
Cache* to *ON – Progressive caching*.

As regards the conditions for caching of Joomla core component views,
**there is no difference between conservative and progressive caching**.
Despite what you may read on some websites and responses to Stack
Overflow questions, it is not the case that Conservative Caching relates
to when the user is not logged on and Progressive Caching to when the
user is logged on.

## Summary

A summary of the caching types is below.

### Page Caching

- **Configuration**: Built-in Plugin (Administrator → Extensions →
  Plugin Manager → System - Page Cache)
- **Caches**: each whole page of your site
- **Based on**: URL
- **More info**:
  - Optional browser caching: Also caches on your visitors'
    browser/computer
  - Only caches pages for guest visitors (not for logged in visitors).
    Be careful using this plugin if you have an interactive site where
    you want to server content based on session/cookie information
    rather than on the plain URL only. Features like a shopping cart
    will not work.

### View Caching

- **Configuration**: Global Config -\> Cache
- **Caches**: each view of a component
- **Based on**: URL, view, parameters, ...
- **More info**: Component developers have to include this in their code
  to work. Mostly this is not done. The Joomla main content component
  uses this, but only for guest visitors of your site though this is not
  obligated for every component.

### Module Caching

- **Configuration**: Global Config -\> Cache
- **Caches**: each module (individually customized via each module's
  Advanced Parameters)
- **Based on**: the module id, the user's view levels and the *Itemid*
  parameter in the HTTP request
- **More info**: You must disable it on some modules to avoid problems

### Further Caching

If you want to check out other cache systems and possibilities, you
might want to check out the third-party extensions around caching.

### Caching engines or storages

- **Configuration**: Global Config -\> Cache

Here you can choose which system you want your site to use for all
caching. Some options are: APC, Eaccelorator, File, Memcache, Redis,
XCache.

APC, for example, also caches your PHP opcode.

# For Developers

The class **JCache** allows a lot of different sorts and levels of
caching. The following subclasses are made specifically, but you can add
your own, or use the main one in many different ways.

Don't forget that the first level of cache encountered, will override
any deeper caching. I suppose that too many levels is also
counterproductive (*to be verified though*).

- **JCacheView** caches and returns the output of a given view (in MVC).
  A cache id is automatically generated from the URI, specific view and
  its specific method, or you can give your own.

This can automatically be done via the base controller's display
function. For example in the controller of your component:

    class DeliciousController extends JController {
        function display() {
            parent::display(true); //true asks for caching.
        }
    }

There are also some urlparams to consider. Check this <a
href="http://joomla.stackexchange.com/questions/5781/how-can-i-use-joomlas-cache-with-my-components-view/7000#7000"
class="external text" target="_blank"
rel="nofollow noreferrer noopener">"joomla stack"</a>

Also, be aware that any updates (such as hits or visit counts) will NOT
be updated (unless you add this outside this method and thus any deeper
MVC-part.)

- **JCachePage** caches and returns the body of the page.
- **JCacheCallback** caches and returns the output and results of
  functions or methods.

If you want to cache queries, this is a good class for it, as
illustrated here: [Using caching to speed up your
code](https://docs.joomla.org/Using_caching_to_speed_up_your_code "Special:MyLanguage/Using caching to speed up your code")

- **JCacheOutput** caches and returns output.

This is rather meant for caching a specific part of PHP code. It acts
like an output buffer, but cached.

## References

- <a
  href="https://forum.joomla.org/viewtopic.php?f=428&amp;t=326990&amp;start=0"
  class="external text" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">Better
  performance with Joomla System Cache plugin (Joomla Forum)</a>
- <a
  href="https://api.joomla.org/cms-3/classes/Joomla.CMS.Cache.Cache.html"
  class="external text" target="_blank"
  rel="noreferrer noopener">JCache</a>
- <a
  href="https://joomla.stackexchange.com/questions/5781/how-can-i-use-joomlas-cache-with-my-components-view/7000#7000"
  class="external text" target="_blank"
  rel="nofollow noreferrer noopener">How can I use Joomla's Cache with my
  components view? (joomla stackexchange beta)</a>
